[DOCS-1603] Document data management service for Micro-RDK (#3105)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/build/micro-rdk/data_management/_index.md

---
title: "Configure Data capture and sync"
linkTitle: "Data Capture"
weight: 30
type: "docs"
description: "Configure data capture and sync to save data from components."
images: ["/services/icons/data-capture.svg"]
icon: true
tags: ["data management", "cloud", "sync"]
no_list: true
no_service: true64
# SMEs: Gautham V.
---

> Micro-RDK's data management service captures data from one or more components in the ESP32's memory. The service periodically uploads data to Viam cloud. If the machine restarts all data that hasn't been synced will be lost.

Reviewer: Nit: Our MD convention is one sentence per line.

```suggestion
The micro-RDK data management service captures data from one or more components in the ESP32's memory.
The service periodically uploads data to the Viam app.
If the machine restarts, all data that hasn't been synced will be lost.
```

> The service can capture data from multiple components at the same or different frequencies.

Reviewer: Nit: explicitness:

```suggestion
The micro-RDK data management service can capture data from multiple components at the same or different frequencies.
```

> Micro-RDK does not impose an upper limit on the frequency of data collection.
> However, in practice, high frequency (> 100Hz) requires special considerations on the ESP32.

Reviewer: Nit: explicitness:

```suggestion
The micro-RDK does not impose an upper limit on the frequency of data collection.
However, in practice, high frequency data collection (> 100Hz) requires special considerations on the ESP32.
```

## Add the data management service

1. Navigate to the **CONFIGURE** tab of your machine's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
2. Click the **+** icon next to your machine part in the left-hand menu and select **Service**.
3. Select the `data management` type, then either use the suggested name or specify a name for your data management service, for example `data-manager`.
4. Click **Create**.
5. On the panel that appears, you can manage the capturing and syncing functions and specify the sync **Interval**
   {{< alert title="Info" color="info" >}}

>    With Micro-RDK the **Directory**, **Tags**, and **Additional paths** fields are ignored and should not be configured.

Reviewer: Nit: docs convention is lower-case `micro`

```suggestion
   With micro-RDK, the **Directory**, **Tags**, and **Additional paths** fields are ignored and should not be configured.
```

   {{< /alert >}}
6. Click the **Save** button in the top right corner of the page.

![data capture configuration](/tutorials/data-management/data-management-conf.png)

{{%expand "Click to view the JSON configuration for the data management service" %}}

```json {class="line-numbers linkable-line-numbers"}
{
  "components": [],
  "services": [
    {
      "attributes": {
        "capture_dir": "",
        "tags": [],
        "additional_sync_paths": [],
        "sync_interval_mins": 3
      },
      "name": "my-data-manager",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "type": "data_manager"
    }
  ]
}
```

> 

Reviewer: Nit: to match above alert, this time for slightly-differently-names attributes
```suggestion

   {{< alert title="Info" color="info" >}}
   With micro-RDK, the `capture_dir`, `tags`, and `additional_sync_paths` attributes are ignored and should not be configured.
   {{< /alert >}}
   
```

{{% /expand%}}

## Configure data capture for individual components

> Once you have added the data capture service, you can specify the data you want to capture at a component level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have added the data management service, you can specify the data you want to capture at a component level.
```

### Supported components

Only the following components types are currently supported with data capture:

> |Type | Method |
> |----- | ----------- |
> |Sensor | GetReadings |
> |Movement Sensor | AngularVelocity, LinearAcceleration, LinearVelocity |

Reviewer: Adding links!

```suggestion
| Type | Method |
| ----- | ----------- |
| [Sensor](/build/micro-rdk/sensor/) | [`GetReadings`](/components/sensor/#getreadings) |
| [Movement Sensor](/build/micro-rdk/movement-sensor/) | [`AngularVelocity`](/components/movement-sensor/#getangularvelocity), [`LinearAcceleration`](/components/movement-sensor/#getlinearacceleration), [`LinearVelocity`](/components/movement-sensor/#getlinearvelocity) |
```

To add data capture for a component, navigate to the **CONFIGURE** tab of your machine's page in the Viam app.

> For each component you can capture data for, there is a `Data capture` section in its panel.

Reviewer: Nit: making actionable:

```suggestion
For each component you can capture data for, find the `Data capture` section in its panel.
```

Click `Add Method` and then select the **Method** type and the capture **Frequency**.

{{< alert title="Caution" color="caution" >}}

> Avoid configuring data capture to higher rates than your hardware can handle, as this leads to performance degradation.

Reviewer: Nit: some clients might have quantum computers!

```suggestion
Avoid configuring data capture to higher rates than your hardware can handle, as this can lead to performance degradation.
```

{{< /alert >}}

Click the **Save** button in the top right corner of the page.

> Now your data will be captured at the configure frequency and synced to Viam cloud at the selected interval.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now your data will be captured at the configured capture frequency and synced to Viam app at the selected interval.
```

> {{%expand "Click to view an example JSON configuration capturing data from the GetReadings method of a temperature sensor and wifi signal sensor" %}}

Reviewer: This detailed example is awesome, but looks like it is stuck in the middle of an ongoing explanation (esp because it is immediately followed by bullets, usually themselves introduced by some manner of explanation). Do you think it might work better at line 161?

      },
      "name": "dm",
      "namespace": "rdk",
      "type": "data_manager"
    }
  ],
  "components": [
    {
      "type": "sensor",
      "model": "tmp36",
      "attributes": {
        "analog_reader": "temp",
        "num_readings": 15
      },
      "depends_on": [],
      "service_configs": [
        {
          "attributes": {
            "capture_methods": [
              {
                "capture_frequency_hz": 0.2,
                "additional_params": {},
                "method": "Readings"
              }
            ]
          },
          "type": "data_manager"
        }
      ],
      "name": "tmp36",
      "namespace": "rdk"
    },
    {
      "type": "sensor",
      "model": "wifi-rssi",
      "attributes": {},
      "service_configs": [
        {
          "type": "data_manager",
          "attributes": {
            "capture_methods": [
              {
                "additional_params": {},
                "method": "Readings",
                "capture_frequency_hz": 0.1
              }
            ]
          }
        }
      ],
      "name": "my-wifi-sensor",
      "namespace": "rdk"
    }
  ]
}
```

{{% /expand%}}

> - To enable or disable data capture for a configured component or method, use the `on/off` toggle.

Reviewer: nit: explicitness:

```suggestion
- To enable or disable data capture for a configured component or method, use the `on/off` toggle on the component's configuration pane in the Viam app.
```

> - To change the frequency of data capture for a method, enter the number of measurements you wish to capture per second in the frequency field.

Reviewer: opt nit explicitness (skip if you think once (above) is enough, agreed if so!):

```suggestion
- To change the frequency of data capture for a method, enter the number of measurements you wish to capture per second in the frequency field on the component's configuration pane in the Viam app.
```

> After adding configuration for the methods, click the **Save** button in the top right corner of the page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After adding the configuration for the methods, click the **Save** button in the top right corner of the page.
```

> If you want to remove a capture method from the configuration, click the `delete` icon.

Reviewer: Should this be a bullet point after change freq and enable/disable? It seems like the logical third bullet point, with "after adding, save" then being the final line in this section.

## View captured data

> To view captured data for a machine, click on the data icon next to the **Save** button on the top right of the app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view captured data for a machine, click on the data icon next to the **Save** button on the top right of the Viam app.
```

{{<imgproc src="/services/data/data-icon.png" resize="300x" declaredimensions=true alt="Data icon">}}

> To view captured data for a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="machine part" >}}, click on the menu in the top right of its card or the menu in the machine resources list in the **Builder** menu and select **View captured data**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To view captured data for a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="part" text="machine part" >}}, click on the **...** menu in the top right of its card, or the menu in the machine resources list in the **Builder** menu, and select **View captured data**.
```

---
title: "Configure Data capture and sync"
linkTitle: "Data Capture"
weight: 30
type: "docs"

> description: "Configure data capture and sync to save data from components."

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
description: "Configure data capture and sync in the micro-RDK to save data from components."
```

images: ["/services/icons/data-capture.svg"]
icon: true
tags: ["data management", "cloud", "sync"]
no_list: true

> no_service: true64

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
no_service: true
```

# SMEs: Gautham V.
---

The micro-RDK data management service captures data from one or more components in the ESP32's memory.
The service periodically uploads data to Viam cloud.

> If the machine restarts all data that hasn't been synced will be lost.

Reviewer 2: so that data isn't saved permanently to disk? Just flash memory?

> The micro-RDK data management service captures data from one or more components in the ESP32's memory.
> The service periodically uploads data to Viam cloud.
> If the machine restarts all data that hasn't been synced will be lost.

Reviewer 2: [minor: clarifying a little]
```suggestion
The micro-RDK data management service captures data from one or more components in the ESP32's flash memory.
The service periodically uploads data to Viam cloud.
If the machine restarts before all data is synced, all unsynced data captured since the last sync point is lost.
```

The service can capture data from multiple components at the same or different frequencies.
The micro-RDK does not impose an upper limit on the frequency of data collection.
However, in practice, high frequency data collection (> 100Hz) requires special considerations on the ESP32.

## Add the data management service

1. Navigate to the **CONFIGURE** tab of your machine's page in [the Viam app](https://app.viam.com).
2. Click the **+** icon next to your machine part in the left-hand menu and select **Service**.
3. Select the `data management` type, then either use the suggested name or specify a name for your data management service, for example `data-manager`.
4. Click **Create**.

> 5. On the panel that appears, you can manage the capturing and syncing functions and specify the sync **Interval**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
5. On the panel that appears, you can manage the capturing and syncing functions and specify the sync **Interval**.
```

>    {{< alert title="Info" color="info" >}}

Reviewer 2: good note

   With micro-RDK, the `capture_dir`, `tags`, and `additional_sync_paths` attributes are ignored and should not be configured.
   {{< /alert >}}
6. Click the **Save** button in the top right corner of the page.

![data capture configuration](/tutorials/data-management/data-management-conf.png)

> {{%expand "Click to view the JSON configuration for the data management service" %}}

Reviewer 2: Tabs
